.\" V7/x86 source code: see www.nordier.com/v7x86 for details.
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Robert Nordier.  All rights reserved.
.TH PTDISK 1
.SH NAME
ptdisk \- disk partition table maintainer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ptdisk
[ options ]
special
[ cmd ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ptdisk
creates and maintains an fdisk-compatible partition table on
specified hard disk
.IR special .
The options are:
.TP 9n
.BI \-b file
Use
.I file
for the boot code.
.TP
.B \-f
Do not prompt for confirmation.
.TP
.BI \-g c,h,s
Specify drive geometry, where `c,h,s' stands for
cylinders, heads, and sectors.
.TP
.B \-z
Display sizes in terms of kilobytes, megabytes and gigabytes rather
than the number of blocks.
.PP
.I Cmd
is one character from the set
.B acdfiptx,
selecting commands as follow:
.TP
.BI a \ partno
Flag the
.I partno
partition as the active (bootable) partition.
.TP
.BI c \ sysid \ [ size ]
Create a type
.I sysid
partition, either limited to
.I size
or taking up all available space.  The
.I size
argument may be specified in blocks, kilobytes, megabytes, or
gigabytes: the latter three by appending a `k', `m', or `g'
suffix.
.TP
.BI d \ partno
Delete the
.I partno
partition.
.TP
.B f
Display the free space available.
.TP
.B i
Initialize the partition table by writing the
designated or default boot code to sector zero of the disk
and deleting any existing partition table entries.
.TP
.B p
Print out (display) the partition table.
.TP
.BI t \ partno\ sysid
Change the
.I partno
partition to type
.IR sysid .
.TP
.B x
Check the partition table.
.PP
Where no
.I cmd
is specified, the default action is to print out the
partition table.
.SH NOTES
Partition types 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 12, 14, and 15 are among
those used by MS-DOS/MS-Windows.
Other common partition types are:
.nf
.PP
        SYSID   DESCRIPTION
        114     V7/x86
        130     Linux
        165     FreeBSD
        166     OpenBSD
        169     NetBSD
        191     Solaris
.fi
.PP
.SH FILES
/usr/boot/mbr     default boot code
.SH BUGS
V7/x86 device drivers will generally not recognise partition
table changes until the system is rebooted.
