.\" V7/x86 source code: see www.nordier.com/v7x86 for details.
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Robert Nordier.  All rights reserved.
.TH HD 4 
.SH NAME
hd \- ATA hard drive
.SH DESCRIPTION
The octal representation of the minor device number is encoded
.IR dsp ,
where
.I d
is the physical drive number,
.I s
indicates the disk slice (one of the four ``fdisk partitions''
into which a PC hard disk may be divided),
and
.I p
selects a pseudodisk (subsection) within that drive and slice.
Disk slices are encoded as follows:
.nf
.PP
	slice	comment
	0		whole disk
	1		slice 1
	2		slice 2
	3		slice 3
	4		slice 4
	5		3rd UNIX slice
	6		2nd UNIX slice
	7		1st UNIX slice
.fi
.PP
Thus minor device number 0164 refers to pseudodisk 4 on the
second UNIX slice of physical drive 1.
.PP
For pseudodisks, the convention is suggested that 0 be
used for the root, 1 for swap, and 2 to refer to the whole
disk, with others unrestricted.
.PP
The
.I hd
files
access the disk via the system's normal
buffering mechanism
and may be read and written without regard to
physical disk records.
There is also a ``raw'' interface
which provides for direct transmission between the disk
and the user's read or write buffer.
A single read or write call results in exactly one I/O operation
and therefore raw I/O is considerably more efficient when
many words are transmitted.
The names of the raw HD files begin with
.IR rhd .
The same minor device considerations
hold for the raw interface as for the normal interface.
.PP
In raw I/O, counts should be a multiple of 512 bytes
(a disk block).
Likewise
.I lseek
calls should specify a multiple of 512 bytes.
.SH FILES
/dev/hd?, /dev/rhd?
.SH BUGS
Pseudodisk definitions are hard-coded in the device driver
source file.
