.\" UNIX V7 source code: see /COPYRIGHT or www.tuhs.org for details.
.\" Changes: Copyright (c) 2007 Robert Nordier. All rights reserved.
.TH BOOT 8
.SH NAME
boot \- startup procedures
.SH DESCRIPTION
A V7/x86 system is started by
a two-stage process.
The first is a primary bootstrap
which is able to read in relatively small stand-alone programs;
the second (called
.IR boot )
is used to read in the system itself.  Both bootstraps are
16-bit x86 `real mode' programs in pure binary format.
.PP
The primary bootstrap must reside
in the otherwise unused block zero of the boot device,
or block zero of the V7/x86 partition, in the case of
disks with `fdisk partitions'.
This is loaded at address 0x7c00, either by the ROM
BIOS directly or by code loaded by the BIOS from the
master boot record of the disk.
This program immediately loads the second stage bootstrap
at address 0x8000.
.PP
The second stage
actually brings in the system.
When executed,
.I boot
types a prompt on the console as follows
.IP " "
BOOT [hd(0,0)unix]:
.LP
Then it
reads from the console
a device specification (see below) followed immediately by
a pathname.
.I Boot
finds the corresponding file on the given device,
loads that file into memory at address 0x10000,
and passes control to it.
.PP
Information displayed
between square brackets constitutes defaults obtainable by
pressing the Enter key without further input.
Where the pathname specifies
a directory, the contents is listed.
.PP
Conventionally, the name of the current version of the system
is `/unix'.
Thus, the recipe is:
.TP
1)
Load and execute
.I boot
by powering up, or rebooting, the machine and selecting
the V7/x86 partition, where applicable.
.TP
2)
When the prompt is given, type
.br
	hd(0,0)unix
.br
or
.br
	fd(0,0)unix
.br
depending on whether you are loading from hard drive
or from the floppy drive, respectively.
The first 0 indicates the physical unit number;
the second indicates
the block number of the beginning of the logical file
system to be searched (see below).
The block number may be omitted, if zero.
.PP
When the system is running, it types a `#' prompt.
After any file system checks have been performed,
a multi-user system is brought up by typing an EOT
(control-d)
in response to the `#' prompt.
.PP
.B Device specifications.
A device specification has the following form:
.IP " "
device(unit,offset)
.LP
where
.I device
is the type of the device to be searched,
.I unit
is the unit number of the device,
and 
.I offset
is the block offset of the file system on the device.
.I Device
is one of the following
.br
.nf
	hd	hard drive
	fd	floppy drive
.fi
For example, the specification
.IP " "
hd(1,7000)
.LP
indicates a hard drive, unit 1, and the file system found
starting at block 7000.
.SH FILES
/unix \- system code
.br
/usr/boot/pcuboot \- copy of primary bootstrap
.br
/boot \- second stage bootstrap
.SH "SEE ALSO"
init(8)
